2. Clone and Initialize Master Branch
Clone the repository to your local system and create an initial file:Bashgit clone <repository-url>
cd Git_PullRequests
touch file1.txt
echo "This file is created in master branch" > file1.txt
git add file1.txt
git commit -m "Initial commit in master"
git push origin main
3. Create a Feature Branch
Create and switch to a new branch named feature-1 to develop changes safely:Bashgit branch feature-1
git checkout feature-1
4. Modify Files in Feature Branch
Make changes and add a new file within the branch:Bashecho "This change is from feature-1 branch" >> file1.txt
touch feature.txt
echo "Feature branch file" > feature.txt
git add .
git commit -m "Changes done in feature-1"
5. Push Feature Branch to GitHub
Upload the branch to the remote repository:Bashgit push origin feature-1
6. Create and Review Pull Request (GitHub UI)Open your GitHub repository and click Compare & pull request.Ensure base: master and compare: feature-1 are selected.Add a description and click Create pull request.Review the code to check for errors or improvements.
7. Merge Pull RequestClick Merge pull request and then Confirm merge

. Update Local Master and Clean Up
Synchronize your local machine and delete the feature branch:Bashgit checkout master
git pull origin master
git branch -d feature-1
git push origin --delete feature-1


Aim:
To understand and implement team-based software development using GitHub by forking a repository, creating a feature branch, making changes, raising a pull request, reviewing the changes, and merging them into the main branch. This experiment helps in learning collaborative development practices followed in real-world software projects.Theory:GitHub Collaboration: Allows multiple developers to work on the same project simultaneously without affecting the stability of the master branch.Forking: Creates a personal copy of an existing repository in a user’s GitHub account for independent changes.Pull Request (PR): A request to merge changes from a feature branch into the master branch, enabling code review and discussion.Code Review: Team members check the PR for correctness and standards before it is merged to preserve version history.
